{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2820
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Fiona Davia\
\pard\pardeftab720\fi960\sl640\partightenfactor0
\cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Command-line interface (CLI) and graphical user interface (GUI) are two different ways for users to interact with an operating system. The biggest difference between the two is that CLI is based on issuing commands while GUI uses visual elements such as windows, buttons, labels and more. \
CLI takes commands from the user via text and the terminal, or shell, interprets the command to perform the task. The biggest requirement when using CLI is to know and understand different commands, their syntax and what they do. It also uses very little memory which keeps the system running smoothly even with heavy tasks. With the correct knowledge CLI becomes more effective and time efficient. \
A Graphical user interface (GUI) is based on graphics and visual elements. GUIs allow users to interact with the system using a keyboard and a mouse facilitating a more user-friendly interface by providing windows, various menus, buttons, icons and more. Since GUIs can show information in a visual it makes spotting and fixing problems quick and easy. They are often more visually appealing including stylish designs with colors, icons, and layouts. However, with the visual appeal comes an issue when it comes to memory, it can slow down the system and take up more space. The key to GUIs is their accessibility to beginners and less technically inclined users. \
}